How backgrounds are created
Realistic backgrounds are not easy to make, but easier than dragons. This is called matte paint (literally - "matte paint"). In old Hollywood films, to add a non-existent mountain that cowboys ride past, they took a large piece of glass, painted this mountain on it and put the glass so that it complements the real landscape. Now the principle is about the same, only everything is done digitally and at times in more detail. Usually a panoramic background is created with a margin for the desired location. If, for example, we are talking about a castle with windows overlooking different parts, then a background is made that is enough for all these views. To simply select the correct fragment at the right time and substitute it. This is often collected in Photoshop from some real landscapes.

The "House of the Dragon" used two types of technology for the background. The first is a simple chroma key, when it is changed to a painted background. This is a simpler solution from a production point of view. In part, they also used LED screens, as in The Mandalorian (The Volume technology, which we talked about in detail here. - Approx. ed.). We call them LED pavilion or LED studio. It is used for not very large decorations that can be placed inside the pavilion. It is technically difficult to assemble this thing on the street, it weighs a lot. This is a bunch of squares about half a meter by half a meter, they need to be connected, there is an incredible amount of wires behind. And all this is afraid of moisture.


The advantage of The Volume is that the LED screen provides both background and light for the scenery and actors. It turns out a realistic combination, especially if there is some kind of sunset in the background or fireworks flashes. This is all played out on the clothes of the heroes. The chroma key has problems with light, because it itself must be brightly lit, so some kind of stray light always comes from it. When shooting chromakey, it is difficult, for example, to achieve direct sunlight or harsh shadows. But in Volume, firstly, it is expensive to shoot, and secondly, for this, all the backgrounds must be done in advance, which usually no one has time to do.