How much effort and time goes into the graphics
In the chart, everything is measured by shots. A shot is a cut-to-cut cut, lasting about five seconds on average, depending on the scenes. One medium shot with a dragon, I think, could take four to eight weeks. First, the animator makes a gray moving 3D model with almost no texture, these are the dimensions of the torso without nuances. Usually, filming material is taken for the background. For example, a rock, a dragon is inserted on it, and the director looks at this already against a real background. Then, for example, he asks the dragon to turn its head faster or hold its wing differently, and the animator makes changes.

Then the visualization process begins. Here it is important to set the light so that it coincides with the shooting. Usually, for this, everything is measured on the site: from where the sun shone, where what instruments were. It also takes into account where the shadows fall. Then the texture of the dragon is made - this is a complex process. The structure of his scales is created to make it look realistic. This process, if done from scratch, can take half a year, because you need to mold all these bumps. If they used materials from dragons in Game of Thrones, then they most likely got it much faster. You can take an existing scale and modify it, make it lighter or more pigmented.

Next, the reflection is calculated. If there is a torch next to the dragon, then the light from it should be reflected a little in the dragon, because it has slightly glossy scales. All these nuances are very important, because if they are absent, then the scale is lost and the viewer will feel something is wrong. And then the final stage is compositing, when the dragon needs to be brought together with the real background in terms of focus, color and other nuances. It's like a very complex photoshop, but at 24 frames per second.


As a rule, this type of animation begins even before filming. Suppose, in order to shoot a shot where a dragon flies over the palace, it is important for the cameraman to understand how he will see it, what scale the dragon is, how fast it flies. For this, previsualization is done. For example, they take photos from the location so that it is clear what is the distance from the coast to the tower, how high it is, and so on. Based on the photographs, a rough layout of the place and the passage of the dragon are made. And put, for example, a bobblehead instead of the main character, corresponding in scale, height and complexion. The operator can even calculate which lens to use this way.

