Aegon II Targaryen

Aegon II Targaryen is the sixth king of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the first Men of the Targaryen dynasty. First son of King Viserys I Targaryen and his second wife, Queen Alycent Hightower. He is the rider of the Sunfire dragon.

Biography
Aegon was born in AD 113, about a year after his parents' marriage in King's Landing and in the tenth year of his father's reign. He has an older half-sister, Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen (daughter of King Viserys' first wife, Queen Aimma Arryn), and three younger siblings by his mother Alycente: Princess Helein, Prince Aymond, and Prince Daeron.

According to the existing line of succession established by his father, King Viserys, Ægon is currently seventh in line to the Iron Throne, behind Rhaenyra and her five children: Princes Jekaerys, Luceris, and Joffrey Velaryon, and Princes Aegon Targaryen the Younger and Viserys Targaryen.

House of the Dragon: Season 1

In honor of Aegon's second name day, King Viserys organizes a hunt in the Royal Forest. Shortly before leaving the capital, Hobert Hightower puts pressure on his younger brother Otto, Hand of the King, to persuade Viserys to appoint Ægon as his heir. During the king's solemn reception at the camp, Hobert calls Prince Aegon the young Conqueror, the second of this name.

The Royal Huntsman hunts down a white stag, considered a symbol of royalty, which causes Viserys to question his choice of Rhaenyra as his heir. However, to the King's relief, the driven deer turns out to be not white.

Jason Lannister presents Viserys with a spear which he ordered to be forged in the Golden Gallery in honor of Prince Aegon, and suggests that the king will declare young Aegon his heir. In turn, Otto advises Viserys to betroth Aegon and Rhaenyra.

The day after the hunt, Otto forces Alicente to discuss the issue of succession with Viserys. However, in a subsequent conversation with him, she does not bring up this topic. ("Second of his name")


The jesters consider Aegon the rightful heir

Rhaenyra and her uncle Damon watch a street performance of succession played by jesters on Silk Street in King's Landing. Most viewers favor Ægon as the heir, supporting the troupe's lead actor's view that Rhaenyra would be a weak queen. ("King of the Narrow Sea")

After being dismissed from the post of Hand of the King, Otto directly tells Alicente that if Reynira inherits the throne, then a war will begin, and Alicente and her children will be put to the sword. He urges her to prepare Aegon to rule.

Ten years later, Ægon, now a teenager, is with his brother Aymond and Rhaenyra's sons Jakeiris and Luceris at the Dragonpit, watching as Jace learns to control his young dragon, Vermax, under the care of dragon keepers. Aegon, Jace, and Luke tell Aymond, the only one without a dragon yet, that they have found one for him. Luke brings in a pig with wings attached, and the boys laugh at Aymond with screeching noises. In private, the mother scolds Aegon and demands to respect her younger brother in public, because they are one family. She also states that if Rhaenyra comes to power, then Aegon and Aymond could lose their lives. Ægon retorts that he has no plans to challenge the throne from Rhaenyra, but Alycente explains to her son that his very existence poses a threat to Rhaenyra.


Ægon trains in the courtyard of the Red Keep with Aymond, Jace, and Luke under Ser Kriston Kohl. Ægon demonstrates swordsmanship by fighting a straw man, but Kriston easily defeats him and Aymond. Criston forces Ægon to knock Jace to the ground and attack him relentlessly, but Ser Harvin Strong intervenes, grabbing Ægon and pushing him aside, enraging the young prince.


Ægon attends, along with the rest of the royal family, the funeral of his aunt Layna Velaryon in Driftmark. During the funeral, Aegon and his younger brother Aymond watch their sister Helaine examine the spider. Aegon, irritated by his recent engagement to Heleina (in the incestuous Targaryen tradition), tells Aymond that he thinks his sister is an idiot. Aymond protects Helaine by reminding Aegon that she is his future queen. Aegon proposes that Aymond marry Helaine himself, in response, Aymond remarks that he would be ready to fulfill his duty if his mother betrothed them in the name of strengthening the family and preserving the purity of the Valyrian blood. Ægon ends the conversation with a joke about how he and Heleina share a love for creatures with long legs, after which he again demands wine and flirts with the maid.

Aegon continues to get drunk and ends up falling asleep on the stairs, where the Prince is found by his grandfather, Ser Otto Hightower. Otto kicks Ægon, who, in a drunken stupor, mistakes his grandfather for his brother, and then drags Ægon into the bedroom, while his brother Aymond and the assembled courtiers look on.

At night, Aegon, along with his mother and sister, is present in the Hall of Nine while Maester Kelvin heals Aymond's eye, and Viserys angrily asks the royal guards how they allowed a fight between his son, grandsons and nieces. Alicente slaps Aegon and accuses him of drinking, leaving his brother defenseless. Viserys asks Aymond why he called Jace and Luke bastards, and Aymond reluctantly says what Aegon told him. When Viserys asks Ægon where he heard this slander, Ægon states that everyone knows the truth and offers to take a look at Jace and Luke, who are nothing like the Valyrians.

The next day, Ægon returns with his family from Driftmark to King's Landing; Ægon flies on his dragon Sunfire, Helein on Flaming Dream and Aymond on Vhagar. ("Driftmark")

Some time later, Aegon and Heleina are married and have two children, Jaehaerys and Jaeheira.

Six years after Leina's funeral, Aegon rapes a maid named Diana who serves him wine. In a rage, Alicente goes to the chambers of her son, who is lying in bed naked and drunk. In response to his mother's reproaches, Aegon replies that he was just having fun, and Diana should not have been so upset, Alicente yells at him that he has dishonored his wife and his family. Aegon states that he did everything his parents asked him to do, but it was never enough for them.

Aegon and his family listen to the petitions of Waymond Velaryon and Rhaenyra (on behalf of Luceris) to inherit Driftmark. Ægon smiles when Viserys confirms Luceris' right to Driftmark, and is surprised when his uncle Damon kills Waymond, who called Rhaenyra's sons bastards.

Viserys gathers the entire Targaryen family for dinner that evening. Tired of Aegon's antics, Alycente raises a toast to Rhaenyra and says she will make a fine queen. Ægon asks Jace about his engagement to their cousin Baela, jokingly offering to teach Jace about sex. When Ægon starts flirting with Baela, Jace gets up but quickly calms down and raises a toast to his uncle. They are joined by Heleina, who raises a toast to Beila and Reyna and taunts her marriage to Aegon. Ægon gets even more annoyed when Jace dances with Heleina. At the end of the feast, when a fight breaks out between Aymond and Jace, Aegon joins her and slams Luke's head on the table until Alycente, Rhaenyra, and Daemon break up the fight.

On his deathbed, Viserys, believing he is talking to Rhaenyra, tells Alicente that Aegon's prophetic dream has come true and that it is she who will save the kingdom. Believing that Viserys is referring to their son, Alycente regains her strength to achieve her goal of placing Aegon on the throne. ("Lord of the Tides")

Unbeknownst to Alicente, the members of the small council, including her father, have been plotting for years to place Ægon on the throne, though Viserys has consistently supported Rhaenyra. When their plans are destined to come true, the future king is nowhere to be found. Otto sends Arrik and Errik Cargill to find Ægon and fetch the prince, and Alicent sends Kriston Kohl and Aymond on the same mission.

After visiting a fighting pit where young children are being exploited, Arrik and Errik find a child they believe is one of Aegon's bastards. They are approached by Jaina, a woman who claims to know where Aegon is, and takes them to her employer, Misaria, also known as Pale Leech. She reveals to Otto that she orchestrated Ægon's kidnapping the previous night and tells the Cargills where to find him in exchange for the crown stopping the pits from being used for child fights.

They travel to the Great Sept, where they find Aegon sleeping under the shrine. When they go outside with the drunken prince to take him to Otto, they are stopped by Christon and Eymond, who have also taken the trail. Aegon tries to run away, but Aymond intercepts him. Aegon is shocked to learn from his brother that his mother and her allies are plotting to make him king. He declares that he does not want to rule, because he is not ready for such a burden, and wants to sail away on a ship from Westeros.

Aegon's coronation is scheduled for the next day at the Dragonpit. On the way there, Aegon tells his mother that Viserys never wanted him to become king: for twenty years he never named Aegon heir, but stubbornly supported the rights of Rhaenyra. Alicente gives him a Valyrian steel dagger and asks him not to give in to Otto's desire to execute Rhaenyra. Aegon asks if his mother really loves him, in response she calls her son an idiot. ("Green Council")