Alicent Hightower

background
Alicent Hightower is the daughter of Ser Otto Hightower, Hand of the King. She has an older brother, Gwaine. From an early age, she grew up in the Red Castle surrounded by royalty.

House of the Dragon: Season 1
At the Dragonpit, Alycente meets Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen, who has just returned from a ride on the dragon Sirax. Reynira invites her to ride the dragon with her one day, but Alicente replies that she prefers the role of a spectator. Alicente returns with the princess in a closed carriage to the Red Castle. Alicente and Reynira visit Queen Eimma, who is in her last month of pregnancy.

In the Godswood of the Red Keep, Alicente tries to discuss the book about Princess Nymeria with Rhaenyra, but she shows no interest in the conversation until Alicente mentions the imminent birth of King Viserys and Queen Aimma's child, who will take Rhaenyra's place in the line of succession if it is a boy. Alicente is startled when Reynira rips a page out of the book and warns the princess that Septa Marlowe will be furious. Rhaenyra declares that she doesn't care about the sept, and they laugh as they walk hand in hand.


Alicent shows attention to Damon

Alicente sits next to the princess in the royal box at the tournament in honor of the heir. She identifies one of the knights participating in the first duel as Christon Kohl of the Stormlands, and also shares court gossip with Rhaenyra about the engagement of Lady Eleanor Stockworth and a young squire, Lord Massey's son, claiming that Eleanor is already pregnant. Alycente freaks out when Prince Daemon Targaryen chooses her older brother, Ser Gwaine Hightower, as his first rival, and bites her nails until Rhaenyra takes her hand. She presses her hand to her mouth as Damon hacks off the legs of Gwaine's horse with his spear, causing the knight to fly out of the saddle and suffer a severe facial injury. Damon asks Alicent for a token, and she agrees. Alicente looks at her father, Ser Otto, before placing a laurel wreath on Damon's spear. Later, she is surprised to see that Ser Criston Cole is Dornish.

Alicente attends the funeral of Queen Aimma and Prince Balon as they are burned in the flames of Sirax.

Father summons Alicente to the Tower of the Hand. Otto hugs her and asks how Reynira is coping with the death of her mother and brother, and then sends her condolences to the king in his chambers wearing one of her mother's dresses.

Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, Ser Rayam Redwyn, escorts Alicente to the chambers of King Viserys. She brings her favorite history book as the king is fascinated by the subject and Viserys thanks her for her kindness. After a moment of silence, Alicente recalls the death of her own mother, noting that people spoke to her in riddles, and she only wanted to show sympathy for her. Alicente sympathizes with the king for his loss.

Alicente and her father attend the naming ceremony for Reynira as Princess of Dragonstone and heir to the Iron Throne.
