Aymond Targaryen is a prince of the Targaryen dynasty and the third child of King Viserys I Targaryen and Queen Alycent Hightower. Dragon rider Vhagar.

background
Aymond is the third child and second son of King Viserys by his second wife, Queen Alicente. He is the younger half-brother of Rhaenyra Targaryen through his father's first wife, the late Queen Aymma Arryn, and the younger sibling of Aegon and Heleina Targaryen through his mother.

Aymond, along with Aegon and Luceris Velaryon, is in the Dragonpit, where Jekaerys Velaryon is learning to command the Vermax. Aymond is the only boy who doesn't have his own dragon. The friends trick Aymond into thinking they have found him a dragon, but in reality they bring in a pig dressed up as a dragon and nicknamed the "Pink Horror". Aymond descends into the tunnels of the lair, where he discovers a large adult dragon. The dragon roars and breathes fire; frightened, Eymond staggers back and runs away. Eymond talks about his mother's prank, and Heleina witnesses their conversation. Alicente tells Aegon, who called Aymond a fool, that in public they must protect each other. Aymond is trained with Aegon, Jace, and Luke in the Red Keep courtyard under Ser Kriston Kohl. ("The Princess and the Queen")

Aymond attends, along with the rest of the royal family, the funeral of his aunt Leina Velaryon, which is held in Driftmark. During the funeral, Eymond and his older brother Aegon watch their sister Heleina study the spider. Aegon, irritated by his recent engagement to Heleina (in the incestuous Targaryen tradition), tells Aymond that he thinks his sister is an idiot. Aymond protects Helaine by reminding Aegon that she is his future queen. Aegon proposes that Aymond marry Helaine himself, in response, Aymond remarks that he would be ready to fulfill his duty if his mother betrothed them in the name of strengthening the family and preserving the purity of the Valyrian blood.

At night, as his grandfather Otto Hightower drags a drunken Ægon to bed, Aymond decides to fulfill his dream of owning a dragon. He sneaks out of the castle and finds Vhagar sleeping in the dunes. When he approaches the dragon and tries to climb up, she wakes up. Vhagar closes his eyes again as Aymond moves away, but when the boy tries to ride her again, an enraged Vhagar almost burns him alive. Aymond, in high Valyrian, orders her to calm down and serve. He climbs onto the dragon's back, but before he can buckle up to his saddle, he is nearly crushed to death when Vhagar soars into the sky at his command. However, he quickly settles in and circles over the Driftmark before landing near High Tide.
After returning to the castle, Aymond runs into Jace and Luke, as well as Leina's daughters, Beyla and Reyna. Reina says that after her mother's death, she must fly to Vhagar. However, Aymond states that the dragon now has a new rider and mockingly advises asking her cousins ​​to find a pig for her. They quarrel and Aymond slams Reyna to the ground. Beyla hits him, but Aymond strikes back and threatens to feed her to the dragon next time. Jace and Luke join the fray, but Ægon gets the better of both. Jace manages to knock Emond to the ground, and he, Bale, and Reyna start beating Emond. Eymond manages to break free, grabs Luke by the throat and says that Luke and Jace will be burned alive, like their father Harvin Strong, and calls the brothers bastards. Luke yells that his father is alive, referring to Laynor. Aymond taunts Jace about Luke's ignorance of his true parentage and calls Jace "Lord Strong". Jace draws a knife and attacks Aymond, but Aymond dodges and hits him over the head with a rock. As Aymond prepares to stab Jace again, Jace throws a handful of sand in his face, and Luke picks up the fallen knife and slits Aymond's left eye. Aymond screams in pain, and the royal guards, attracted by the commotion, find the children. Harrold Westerling orders the children to stop fighting, turns Aymond around to examine the wound, and is horrified by what he sees.

The children are brought to the Hall of Nine, and King Viserys, in a rage, asks Westerling how the royal guards allowed a fight between his son, grandchildren and nieces. Maester Kelvin tends to Aymond's eye, and Corlis, Rhaenys, Reynira, and Damon enter the hall. When the kids start arguing about who is to blame for the fight, Viserys orders them to be quiet and tells Aymond to tell the truth. Jace states that Aymond called him and Luke bastards. Viserys asks Aymond who told him that lie. Aymond looks at his mother, but reluctantly says that he heard it from Aegon. Surprised, Aegon, under pressure from Viserys, declares that everyone knows the truth and offers to look at Jace and Luke, who do not look like Valyrians at all.

Viserys furiously demands an end to the eternal strife, since they are one family. Alicente states that this is not enough and one of Rhaenyra's sons must also lose an eye like Aymond. Viserys asks his wife not to let her anger cloud her mind, but she orders Ser Kriston to bring Luke's eye to her, claiming that she will let the boy decide which eye to keep, although Aymond had no such choice. The situation sharply escalates when Alycente snatches a Valyrian steel dagger from Viserys and tries to do justice herself. Aymond witnesses the confrontation between Alicente and Reynira, who protects Luke. As the queen and princess part ways, Aymond tells his mother not to be sad as he traded the eye for the dragon and considers it a fair deal. ("Driftmark")