Corlys Velaryon, alias "Sea Serpent", head of House Velaryon and husband of Princess Rhaenys Targaryen

Story
Corlis is the Lord of the Tides and head of House Velaryon. He is married to Rhaenys Targaryen, cousin of Viserys I Targaryen. He has two children with Rhaenys - daughter Layna and son Leynor.

House of the Dragon: Season 1
At a small council meeting, Corlis informs the gathering that the Free Cities Alliance has now begun calling itself the Triarchy. They landed on Bloodstone and are now ridding the Steps of pirates. King Viserys remarks that this is suspiciously good news. Corlis reports that a certain Kraghas Drahar proclaimed himself Prince Admiral of the Triarchy, and was nicknamed the Crab Feeder for his ingenious way of punishing his enemies. Viserys responds by stating that he sees no reason to mourn the dead pirates. Korlis urges the king not to give the Triarch a free hand on the Steps, as the break in the sea routes will devastate the ports of Westeros. The Hand of the King, Otto Hightower, interrupts Corlis' speech, stating that the crown has heard his report.

Corlis attends the tournament in honor of the heir with his wife, Rhaenys, and their two children, Leyna and Leynor.

Korlis attends the funeral of Queen Aimma and Prince Balon.

The day after the funeral, at a meeting of the small council, Otto Hightower raises the issue of the heir to the Iron Throne. Corlis supports Daemon Targaryen's claim to the throne due to male primogeniture. When Otto proposes Rhaenyra instead, Corlis names an alternative: his wife Rhaenys, stating that she has a right to claim the throne and has a male heir. Viserys, furious, scolds the members of the small council for squabbling while he is still in mourning, and adjourns the meeting.

Korlis is present at court when Viserys names Rhaenyra Princess of Dragonstone and heir to the Iron Throne. Together with other lords, he kneels and pledges allegiance to her. ("Descendants of the Dragon")

About half a year after Aimma Arryn's funeral, Corlis reiterates his troubles with the Triarchy, who have already sunk four Westeros ships, including one under the flag of Velaryon, so he wants to capture the Stairs and destroy the Crab Feeder. Viserys explains that he sent messengers to Pentos and Volantis with the prospect of forging an alliance against their common enemy. Corlis retorts that further inaction will only reinforce the Free Cities' belief in the weakness of Viserys, who has already allowed his brother Daemon to seize Dragonstone with impunity.

Corlis and Rhaenys attempt to forge a marriage alliance between House Targaryen and House Velaryon, proposing to Viserys that they marry their daughter Leyna, uniting the Targaryen dragons and the Velaryon fleet, and showing the entire kingdom that the crown's strongest days are ahead, not behind. Although the master of laws Lionel Strong supports the idea of ​​an alliance with Viserys and Leina (due to a number of political advantages), Viserys decides to marry Lady Alicent Hightower. Corlis, angered by yet another insult to his family by the Targaryens, leaves King's Landing and steps down as Master of Ships. He returns to Driftmark and invites Damon Targaryen to join him and his family in the Stair War to win glory. ("The Vicious Prince")

Three years later, Korlis and Damon appear to be losing the war during the long and difficult siege of Bloodstone, with the mercenaries considering desertion. However, after Viserys offers Daemon help against the Triarchy, Daemon and Corlis's troops launch a counteroffensive with the support of Corlis's son Laynor on the dragon Seasmoke. Velaryon's forces are victorious after Damon kills Kraghas Drahar. ("Second of his name")

Korlis and his army proclaim Damon King of the Narrow Sea and return to Driftmark. ("King of the Narrow Sea")