Criston Cole is a Knight of House Cole and a member of the Kingsguard.

Biography
Criston is a member of House Kolya, a minor house of the Dornish Marches, who are vassals of the Dondarrions. His father is a steward at the Black Haven. Criston is of Dornish descent, but it is not clear which side his family is on.

House of the Dragon: Season 1
Kriston participates in a tournament in honor of the heirs. In the first skirmish with spears, he defeats a knight from House Tarly. He then gains the upper hand over Lord Boremund and Ser Borros of House Baratheon. In the final duel, Kriston converges with Prince Daemon Targaryen and knocks him out of the saddle, after which Damon demands the continuation of the sword fight. Kriston uses a morning star while the prince draws his Dark Sister sword.
In an intense fight, Kriston breaks Damon's shield and Damon breaks through Kriston's chestplate. Damon grabs his broken shield and throws it at Kriston's head, then kicks him to the ground. He raises his hands in front of the audience, believing himself to be the winner, although the enemy has not yet surrendered. Kriston gets up and hits Damon with a morningstar in the back, knocking him to the ground and forcing him to surrender. After winning the duel, Kriston asks Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen for a token; she tosses him a wreath and wishes him good luck. ("Descendants of the Dragon")

Six months after the tournament, Ser Criston is accepted into the Kingsguard at the urging of Princess Rainier, as he is the only candidate with actual combat experience. Kriston travels to Dragonstone with a force led by Ser Otto Hightower, Hand of the King, to force Prince Daemon to end his occupation of the castle. When Damon deliberately calls him "Ser Crispin", Criston retaliates by reminding Damon of the time he knocked him out of the saddle in the tournament in honor of the heir. The situation escalates and both sides draw their swords, but Princess Rainier arrives and manages to convince Damon to return the dragon's egg without bloodshed. ("The Vicious Prince")

Three years later, King Viserys hosts a royal hunt in the Royal Forest in honor of his son Aegon's second name day. Before leaving the capital, the king approaches Ser Kriston and asks about the whereabouts of Rhaenyra, but Kriston confesses that he does not know where she is.

At the camp in the King's Wood, Kriston sees Rainier run out of the tent and ride away on horseback. He mounts a horse and, after a chase, catches up by the river. The princess reveals that her father is trying to marry her off to Lord Jason Lannister. Kriston jokingly asks if he should kill Jason, and Rainier smiles back at him. He invites her to return to the camp, but the princess is about to walk through the forest. During the walk, Rhaenyra asks if Ser Kriston was betrothed, and he admits that his position was not high enough for an engagement, although before taking the oath of the royal guard, he could have married a commoner if he wanted. Rainira is jealous that Kriston can choose her own path in life, as she herself, despite her status as the princess of Dragonstone, feels helpless. Kriston reminds her that it was the princess who appointed him to the Royal Guard, the highest honor for the Coley family.

At night, sitting by the fire with Rainier, Kriston once again asks her to return to the camp, as her father is probably worried, but she still does not want to. Rainier asks Criston if her country will accept her as queen, and he replies that the people will have no other choice. There is a rustle in the nearby bushes. Kriston draws his sword, preparing to protect the princess from danger. After a tense silence, a wild boar runs out of the bushes, knocks Christon down and attacks Rainier. Kriston pierces the boar with a sword, and the princess, in a rage, finishes off the beast, inflicting many blows on it with a dagger.

On the way to the camp, another animal comes out to them: a white deer. Kriston slowly draws his sword, but Rayneera stops him. He obeys, the deer turns and runs away. When they return to the camp with the slain boar, they are greeted with surprised looks from those gathered. ("Second of his name")

Ser Kriston accompanies Princess Rhaenyra on a trip to see potential suitors for her hand. During an audience at Storm's End, Rhaenyra rejects all suitors, and when a fight breaks out between Willem Blackwood and Jerrel Bracken, she tells Christon they are leaving and orders the ship to be prepared for the return to King's Landing, although the tour was supposed to continue at Bitter Bridge. There is a scream, and as they turn, Criston and Reynira see that Willem has stabbed Jerrel with his sword.

While returning to King's Landing, Rayneera asks Kriston if her father would be angry, to which Kryston quipped if she was referring to her refusing all suitors or ending the trip early. At that moment, a dragon's cry is heard overhead. Criston orders everyone to take cover as Caraxes rushes down, hitting the ship and rocking it dangerously. Criston checks on the princess and calls for the maesters, but Reynira insists that she is fine.

In the evening, Kriston bids Rainier good night and stands guard at her bedroom door. Hours later, to his bewilderment, Rainier, who has slipped out of her room through a secret passageway and joined Damon for a night on the town, comes into the bedroom dressed as a commoner. Rayneera playfully snatches the helmet from him and lures him into the bedroom. After blocking the exit from the room, Rainier kisses Kriston and begins to free him from the armor. Kriston hesitates, looking meaningfully at his white cloak, which he removes, torn between a vow of chastity and not wanting to disobey his princess. Eventually, he gives in to temptation and starts kissing her back, and the pair spend the night together.

The next morning, Kriston enters Rainier's quarters to invite her to meet Queen Alycent Hightower.

In the evening, Criston and several other members of the Kingsguard escort Rhaenyra, who has returned from Dragonstone, to her father's quarters. ("King of the Narrow Sea")

Criston accompanies Rhaenyra, Viserys, and the new Hand of the King, Lord Lionel Strong, on a trip to Driftmark, where they propose to Lord Corlis Velaryon a marriage between Rhaenyra and his son, Ser Laenor Velaryon. On the way back, Kriston, guilt-ridden for breaking the vow of a royal guard, asks Reynira to flee with him to Essos, where she can marry him for love, not duty. By doing so, Rainier would be able to do whatever he wanted, and he would be able to avoid the shame of breaking his oath. After a few seconds of silence, Reynira states that it is her duty to marry a noble from a great house, but after the wedding, she can continue her relationship with Kriston, as she reached an understanding with Laynor: both: after they fulfill their duty to families and the kingdom, each of them will follow his own desires. Kriston changes his tone and angrily says that he doesn't want to be Rainier's whore: he has broken his vow of chastity and has nothing but a white cloak, which he has permanently soiled. He believed that by marrying Rainier, his honor could be saved. Rainier starts to explain that the Iron Throne is more important than her and the most important thing in her family, but Kriston turns around and leaves.

Upon returning to King's Landing, Criston is summoned by Queen Alycente and talks about rumors that Rhaenyra is no longer a virgin, although she does not specify who she had sex with. Kriston confesses that he broke his vow and indulged in sin with Rainier. This surprises Alicente, as she assumed that Rainier had slept with her uncle Damon. Kriston says that he has dishonored himself and begs Alicente to be a merciful queen and instead of castration and torture, sentence him to death. Alicenta thanks Christon for being honest and lets him go.

During the feast on the occasion of the marriage of Rainier and Leynor, Christon stands aside and watches them dance together. He is approached by Ser Joffrey Lonemouth, who confesses that he is Laynor's lover and hints that he knows Christon's secret. Joffrey tells Kriston that they must swear to protect each other and their secrets. This threat infuriates Kriston, and he begins to beat Joffrey to the shock and horror of everyone gathered. Laynor tries to pull him away, but Kriston knocks him to the floor and beats Joffrey to death, turning his face into a bloody mess. After looking at his victim for a few seconds, Kriston silently gets up and leaves; everyone is too scared to stop him.

Kriston enters the godswood, takes off his white cloak and armor. He kneels in front of the weir tree and draws a dagger, preparing to kill himself. At the last moment, Alicente appears and calls his name, preventing suicide. ("We light the way")

Ten years later, Christon becomes a reliable ally of Queen Alicent, who saved his life at the most difficult moment. While teaching swordsmanship to the sons of Rhaenyra and Alicente, Kriston deliberately allows Aegon, Alicente's eldest son, to be rude to Jakaerys Velaryon, Rhaenyra's eldest son. When Harvin Strong intervenes, Criston alludes to rumors that Jakeiris and his brothers Luceris and Joffrey are Harvin's illegitimate sons, provoking Harvin into a fight. ("The Princess and the Queen")