Daemon Targaryen is a prince of the Targaryen dynasty and the younger brother of King Viserys I Targaryen. Uncle of Queen Rhaenyra Targaryen, her second husband and king consort.

Daemon is a fearless warrior and rider of the dragon Caraxes, nicknamed the Blood Serpent.

Biography
Damon is the grandson of Jaehaerys I Targaryen, younger brother of King Viserys, and heir presumptive to the Iron Throne. Ser Otto Hightower, Hand of the King, considers Damon the biggest threat to the kingdom. Daemon is the rider of the dragon Caraxes, known as the Blood Serpent. Damon is an experienced and skilled warrior and wields the Dark Sister, a Valyrian steel sword formerly owned by Visenya Targaryen. Unlike his older brother, Damon - despite his cunning - is an unpredictable and impulsive person.

Damon's personal crest depicts a three-headed red dragon of House Targaryen with golden scales, surrounded by golden fire.

House of the Dragon: Season 1
Damon waits for his niece, Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen, in the Great Hall of the Red Keep, seated on the Iron Throne. Rhaenyra enters the hall, accompanied by Ser Harrold Westerling. Ser Harrold is shocked by Damon's impudence, but Rhaenyra, accustomed to her uncle's frivolity, is not at all surprised. Rhaenyra and Damon speak in High Valyrian, and Damon declares that he has arrived at the tournament that Viserys is holding in his honor: after all, until Rhaenyra's mother gives birth to a son, Damon is the rightful heir to the throne. Damon gives his niece a jeweled Valyrian steel necklace.

As night falls, Damon delivers a speech to the City Watch, whom he has turned from starving street thugs into a regular formation, providing them with good weapons and uniforms in the form of golden cloaks. The guards begin a massive roundup of criminals in King's Landing: thieves are cut off the hands, rapists are castrated, and murderers are executed on the spot. In the morning, at a meeting of the small council, at which Damon is present, the Hand of the King Otto Hightower complains to Viserys that Damon arranged a demonstration massacre, personally passing sentences, but, in his opinion, the prince should not be allowed to act with such permissiveness.

Damon justifies his actions: nobles from all over the kingdom are coming to King's Landing for the tournament, so it is necessary to ensure safety on the city streets. Corlis Velarion also speaks out in support of Damon's actions, arguing that criminals should fear the city guards. The discussion turns into a nasty personal squabble when Otto states that Damon should show the same devotion to his wife Rhea Royce as he does to leading the golden cloaks, and advises Damon to return to his wife at the Runestone in the Vale. In response, Damon states that "the bronze bitch is better off without him" and sarcastically offers to give her up to Otto as a replacement for his recently deceased wife. Offended, Otto gets up from the table, but Viserys defuses the situation and asks Damon to ensure law and order in the city, not repeating rash antics. Damon leaves the small council early and goes to a brothel with the prostitute Misaria.

At a small council meeting, Otto urges Viserys to announce an official heir. After the death of Prince Balon, Damon is the undisputed successor to Viserys, but Otto believes that Damon has no place on the Iron Throne, as he will be the second Maegor. The Hand admits that Damon has undoubted ambitions and cites the example of the City Guard - two thousand golden cloaks devoted to him. In response, Viserys declares that it was Otto who put Damon in command of this army, and recalls that earlier, due to Otto's complaints, Daemon lost the positions of master of laws and master of coin. Otto reiterates his opinion that Damon does not belong in the court, unaware that Damon is surreptitiously eavesdropping on this conversation. Mellos expresses fears that Viserys may have an unexpected accident, but the king is completely sure that Damon will not go to murder for the crown, since he does not need the throne.


At a brothel on Silk Street, Damon has a drunken orgy for golden capes. Damon raises a toast to his late nephew. Otto informs Viserys that, according to three independent witnesses, Damon called Balon "Heir for a Day". Viserys takes this as an insult and summons his brother to the throne room.

Viserys receives Damon, sitting on the Iron Throne with the Targaryen family sword Black Flame and surrounded by the Kingsguard. Viserys asks if Damon really taunted his nephew by calling him "heir for a day". In response, Damon states that everyone grieves in their own way. Viserys, furious, says that instead of comforting his brother and niece, Damon has gathered whores and henchmen to celebrate his rise. Damon replies that Viserys is always trying to send him to hell, and also in ten years of reign he has never offered him the post of Hand. Damon calls Otto Hightower a scoundrel and declares that Otto will not protect Viserys the way Damon would protect his brother. Moreover, he claims that the small council is using Viserys to their advantage, since the king is weak.

Viserys, outraged by the insult, announces his intention to name an heir. Damon mockingly asserts that he is the heir, Viserys replies "Not anymore" and orders Damon to return to the Runestone to his wife. As Damon steps forward to protest, the royal guards block his path and Damon is forced to leave the throne room.

At the Dragonpit, Daemon, ignoring the Dragonstone princess naming ceremony for Rhaenyra, introduces Misaria to his dragon Caraxes, and they fly away from the capital. ("Descendants of the Dragon")

For half a year, Damon rules Dragonstone, turning the city guard into his personal army. One night, he steals Flame Dream's dragon egg from the Dragon Pit, intending to place it in the cradle of the child Misaria will give birth to. Viserys sends Otto with a detachment of royal guards and guards to Dragonstone. Damon, accompanied by Misaria and the golden cloaks, intercepts them on the bridge leading to the castle; Otto conveys Viserys' demands: Damon must return the stolen dragon egg, disband the army, expel the whore, and leave the castle. Damon refuses to comply, insisting that he is simply following the traditions of his house. When Otto threatens Misaria, Damon draws the Dark Sister and both sides draw their weapons. Caraxes appears on the horizon, ready to protect his rider, and Otto is forced to order the squad to sheathe their swords.

Suddenly, Rhaenyra flies to Syrax and reminds Damon that her father named her Princess Dragonstone, and that she is the reason for depriving him of his right to the throne. Reynira offers her uncle to kill her if he really wants to regain his former status as heir, but Damon is not ready for a crime for the sake of the title, and reluctantly throws a dragon egg to Reynira, after which he returns to the castle with Misaria and his retinue.

Misaria realizes that Damon lied about their wedding and her pregnancy, wanting to annoy his brother. She scolds Damon for provoking Viserys, stating that he, being a Targaryen, can afford to play his perverted games with the king, but no one will reckon with a mob whore.

After Viserys refuses to marry his daughter Leyna and his unwillingness to help in the fight against the Triarchy, Corlis Velarion invites Damon to Driftmark. Corlis tells of the ancient history of House Velaryon and its connections to Old Valyria and House Targaryen. Corlis resents Viserys' disrespect for his family and points out that he and Damon fought their way through but were neglected, thus reminding them of the prince's current unenviable position. Although Damon rebukes Corlis for disrespecting his brother, he is intrigued when Corlis proposes a joint military campaign to destroy the Crab Feeder and purge the Triarch troops from the Stairs, both gaining wealth and fame and proving his worth to Viserys.