Jacaerys "Jace" Velaryon is a Targaryen prince and the firstborn of Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen. Dragon Rider Vermax.


Biography
Jakaerys is the eldest son of Reynira Targaryen and her husband Leinor Velaryon, and the older brother of Luceris and Joffrey Velaryon. He is second in line to the Iron Throne after his mother, Rainier. By agreement between Viserys I Targaryen and Corlys Velaryon, Jakaerys is to assume the name "Jekeyris Targaryen" upon ascending the throne.

Although Jakaerys and his brothers are considered the legitimate children of Rayneera and Laynor, they are actually bastards fathered by Ser Harvin Strong.

House of the Dragon: Season 1
Jace and Luke are playing under Harwin's care when Rayneera and Laynor return to their quarters in the Red Keep with the newborn Joffrey. Jace and Luke show the dragon egg they chose for Joffrey's cradle, and Jace says he let Luke choose. Laynor takes Jace and Luke back to the Dragonpit, where the Dragon Keepers train Jace to command the Vermax. Jace, Luke, and Aegon play a prank on Aymond by bringing him a pig dressed up as a dragon.

Jace trains with Luke, Aegon, and Aymond under Ser Criston Kohl. When Harwin advises Kriston to give the boys equal attention, Kriston arranges for a duel between Jace and Aegon, who, on Kriston's orders, knocks Jace to the ground. Harvin comes to Jace's defense and Kriston provokes Harvin to attack him. As a result, Harvin is fired from his post as commander of the city guard and sent to Harrenhal. Harvin says goodbye to Jace, promising to return. After he leaves, Rayneera tells Jace that they will be sending each other letters with ravens. Jace directly asks if Harvin Strong is his father and he is a bastard. The stunned Rhaenyra declares to her son that he is a Targaryen, and nothing else matters.

At the end of the Small Council meeting, Rainier proposes to Alicente to arrange an engagement between Jace and Alicente's daughter Heleina to overcome the animosity and unite their families, but Alicente refuses. Jakeiris travels to Dragonstone with his mother, father, and younger brothers. ("The Princess and the Queen")

Jace attends the funeral of his aunt Layna Velaryon on Driftmark with Rayneera, Leynor, Luceris, and the rest of the royal family. During the funeral reception after the funeral, Rainier asks Jace to comfort her grieving cousins. Jace replies that he too demands sympathy, and they should mourn the deaths of Lord Lionel and Ser Harvin. Rayneera explains to Jace that a visit to Harrenhal would be inappropriate, reminding Jace that the Velaryons are their kin and the Strongs are not. Jace walks over to Beyla and Reyna, and Beyla takes his hand in comfort.

During the night, Beila and Reyna wake up Jace and report that someone has stolen Vhagar, their dead mother's dragon. Together with Luceris, they engage in a fight with the returned Aymond Targaryen, who has kidnapped Vhagar, which rightfully belonged to Rhine. However, Aymond states that the dragon now has a new rider and mockingly advises asking her cousins ​​to find a pig for her. They quarrel and Aymond slams Reyna to the ground. Beyla punches him in the face, but Aymond strikes back and threatens to feed her to the dragon next time. Jace and Luke join the fray, but Ægon gets the better of both. Jace manages to knock Aymond to the ground; he, Beila and Reyna start beating Aymond. Eymond breaks free, grabs Luke by the throat and says that Luke and Jace will be burned alive like their father, and calls the brothers bastards. This insult causes Jace to draw his knife and attack Aymond, but Aymond dodges and hits him over the head with a rock. As Aymond prepares to stab Jace again, Jace throws a handful of sand in his face, and Luke picks up the fallen knife and slits Aymond's left eye. The fight attracts the attention of the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, Harrold Westerling, who arrives on the scene along with other guardsmen and orders the children to stop fighting.

The children are brought to the Hall of Nine, and King Viserys, in a rage, asks Westerling how the royal guards allowed a fight between his son, grandchildren and nieces. Maester Kelvin tends to Aymond's eye, and Corlis, Rhaenys, Reynira, and Damon enter the hall. When the kids start arguing about who is to blame for the fight, Viserys orders them to be quiet and tells Aymond to tell the truth. Queen Alycent asks what is still unclear: Luke maimed Aymond. Reynira calls what happened an unfortunate accident: her sons were attacked and forced to defend themselves, and before that they were dirty and vilely insulted, calling into question their legitimacy. When Viserys asks what exactly the insults were, Jace replies that Aymond called him and Luke bastards. Rayneera tells her father that since Jace will inherit the Iron Throne, such rumors are treason. Viserys asks Aymond who told him this lie, to which Aymond replies that it was Aegon. When Viserys asks Ægon where he heard this slander, Ægon states that everyone knows the truth and offers to take a look at Jace and Luke, who don't look like Valyrians at all.

Viserys furiously demands an end to the eternal strife, since they are one family. Alicente states that this is not enough and one of Rhaenyra's sons must also lose an eye like Aymond. Viserys asks his wife not to let her anger cloud her mind, but she orders Ser Kriston to bring Luke's eye to her, shocking the assembled courtiers. Viserys once again emphasizes that the matter is closed, and promises to rip out the tongue of anyone who dares to question the legitimacy of Princess Rhaenyra's children. Alicent snatches the Valyrian steel dagger from Viserys and tries to do justice herself. Rayneera steps forward to protect Jace and Luke from Alicente, and is cut on her left arm as a result of the confrontation.

The next day, Jace and Luke watch as Maester Kelvin stitches up the wound on Rayneera's arm. Subsequently, his mother sends him away with Luke when Laynor enters the room.
After the incident with Aymond and the alleged murder and burial of Leynor, Jace attends the wedding of Rhaenyra and Damon, which takes place on Dragonstone, along with Luke and cousins Beyla and Rayna. ("Driftmark")