Otto Hightower was a Knight of the House of Hightower who served as Hand of King Viserys I Targaryen.

Biography
Otto is a representative of the House of Hightower and the father of Alicente Hightower. He was the Hand of King Viserys I Targaryen and considered the King's younger brother and Crown Prince Daemon the biggest threat to the kingdom.

House of the Dragon: Season 1
In the ninth year of the reign of King Viserys I Targaryen, Otto is present at the meeting of the small council in the Red Keep as the Hand of the King. Lord Corlys Velarion brings to the council's attention that the Free Cities have formed an alliance called the Triarchy and have seized the Steps, causing the Westeros ports to be ruined, but Otto and the king ignore his concerns. Otto turns the conversation to the upcoming tournament in honor of the heir, which the king has planned in anticipation of the birth of his child.

In the evening, Otto is in Viserys' private quarters, along with Grand Maester Mellos and Maester Mikon, who tend to the infected wound on the king's back. Otto instructs Mellos to keep information about the disease a secret.

At night, the king's younger brother, Prince Daemon, along with the city guards, organizes a massive roundup of criminals in King's Landing. In the morning, at a meeting of the small council, at which Damon is present, Otto complains to Viserys that Damon arranged a demonstration massacre, personally passing sentences, but, in his opinion, the prince should not be allowed to act with such permissiveness. Damon justifies his actions: nobles from all over the kingdom are coming to King's Landing for the tournament, so it is necessary to ensure safety on the city streets. The discussion turns into a nasty personal squabble when Otto states that Damon should show the same devotion to his wife Rhea Royce as he does to leading the golden cloaks, and advises Damon to return to his wife at Runestone. In response, Damon states that "the bronze bitch is better off without him" and sarcastically offers to give her up to Otto as a replacement for his recently deceased wife. Offended, Otto gets up from the table, but Viserys defuses the situation by urging Otto not to pay attention to his brother's provocations. Otto reluctantly complies.

The next day, Otto is seated next to the king in the royal box as the tournament begins in honor of the heir. Otto informs Viserys that Lord Boremund Baratheon should have his tongue cut out after he calls Princess Rhaenys "Almost a Queen", but the king is not taken in by the harmless chatter. Damon insults Otto by choosing the eldest son of the Hand of Ser Gwaine Hightower as the first opponent in the duel. Damon defeats Gwaine by chopping Gwaine's horse with a spear, after which he asks for and receives a token of attention from Otto's daughter Alicente Hightower.

In the middle of the tournament, the maester arrives and informs Otto about Queen Eimma's difficult birth, after which Otto immediately reports this to Viserys, and both leave the royal box. Otto later returns and breaks the news of the birth of Prince Balon Targaryen and the death of the queen to the members of the small council.

Otto attends the funeral of Queen Aimma and Prince Balon as they are cremated in the flames of the dragon Sirax.

At a meeting of the small council, Otto insists that for the sake of the stability of the state, Viserys must declare an official heir. After Balon's death, Damon once again became Viserys' presumptive successor, and Otto, with the support of Grand Maester Mellos, claims that Damon has undoubted ambition and cites the City Watch as an example - two thousand golden cloaks devoted to him. Viserys angrily retorts Otto, stating that his brother is ambitious, but he does not aspire to take the Iron Throne. In response to Otto's complaint that Damon commands the City Watch, effectively a personal army, Viserys points out that it was Otto's idea to give Damon this army. He also says that Otto's protests caused Damon to lose his positions as Master of Laws and Master of Coins earlier.

Otto agrees, but reiterates that Damon should be kept as far away from court as possible, as he could become another Maegor the Cruel or worse. Lord Lionel Strong asks who else can claim the throne, and Otto names the king's firstborn, Rainier. Viserys refuses to choose between brother and daughter, so Corlis offers an alternative, namely his wife Rhaenys, who Otto rejects as Corlis had just declared his support for Damon. The discussion ends abruptly when an enraged Viserys compares the members of the Small Council to ravens feasting on the corpses of his wife and son, and leaves the meeting room in anger.

At the Tower of the Hand, Otto sends for his daughter Alicente and sends a message to Grand Maester Mellos to send him with a raven to Oldtown. Otto hugs his daughter, comforting her and asking about Rainier, and then invites Alicente to express condolences to the grieving king in his chambers, before that wearing one of her mother's dresses. In the evening at the Pleasure House on Silk Street, Damon throws a party for the golden cloaks and his friends. The next morning, Otto reports the party to Viserys, insisting that three independent witnesses claim that Damon called Balon "Heir for a Day".

Otto and his daughter attend the ceremony to proclaim Rhaenyra as Princess of Dragonstone and heir to the Iron Throne. ("Descendants of the Dragon")