Rhaenyra Targaryen is the daughter of King Viserys I Targaryen and Aimma Arryn. She contests her younger half-brother Aegon II's claim to the Iron Throne and uses the title of Queen of the Andals, Rhoynar and First Men, Lady of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm. Rhaenyra is a dragon rider named Sirax.


House of the Dragon: Season 1
High in the sky above the streets of King's Landing, Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen rides the dragon Sirax and lands in front of the entrance to the Dragonpit. The two dragonguards escort Syrax to the Lair, and Rhaenyra is greeted by Ser Harrold Westerling, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, and her friend and lady-in-waiting Alycent Hightower. Rhaenyra tells Alicente that Syrax is growing rapidly, catching up with Caraxes and will soon be able to lift two horsemen, but Alicente replies that she prefers the role of a spectator. Ser Harrold and a few guards escort Rhaenyra and Alicent in a covered wagon back to the Red Keep. Rhaenyra, along with Alicente, visits her mother, Queen Aimma Arryn, who is in her last month of pregnancy. Rainier is not happy about the prospect of becoming a mother, but Eimma is sure that women who give birth to children to kings thus serve the state.

Rhaenyra goes to a meeting of the small council of her father, King Viserys I Targaryen, and serves as cupbearer. Viserys reprimands her daughter for being late and smells that she was flying her dragon.

After the council meeting ends, Rainier and Harrold head to the Great Hall, where they find Prince Daemon seated on the Iron Throne. Ser Harrold is shocked at this impudence, but Rhaenyra, accustomed to her uncle's frivolity, is not at all surprised. Rhaenyra and Damon speak in High Valyrian, and Damon declares that he has arrived at the tournament that Viserys is holding in his honor: after all, until Rhaenyra's mother gives birth to a son, Damon is the rightful heir to the throne. Damon gives his niece a Valyrian steel necklace.

Rhaenyra and Alycente spend time at the weir tree in the Godswood of the Red Keep, reading a book and talking about how the Princess of Nymeria escaped with the surviving Rhoynar from Valyria to Dorne. Reynira hopes that her father will finally have a son, and ignores Alicente's remarks that her son will pass her in the line of succession.

The next day at the tournament, Rainier and Alicent discuss knights, including Christon Kohl. She enthusiastically follows the course of the fights. When Ser Kriston defeats Damon in the final battle, he asks the princess for a token, and she gives him a wreath. When news of her mother's death by botched C-section reaches those present, no one wants to talk about it to Rainier. A few hours later, her newborn brother Baylon dies. At the funeral, after a few words of encouragement from Damon, Rainier steps forward and orders his dragon Sirax to light the funeral pyre.

In the evening, Viserys invites Reynira to Balerion's shrine in the basement of the Red Keep. Reynira is surprised that her father hasn't spoken to her since her mother's funeral, and is even more perplexed when he asks her what she sees when she looks at dragons. Rainier confesses that she sees their family; according to her, the Targaryens are closer to the gods than to people, but this is all because of the dragons. Viserys warns Rhaenyra that dragons are a force not to be played with by a human; this power destroyed Valyria and could well destroy their family if they did not remember the lessons of history. Viserys is sure that any king or queen should understand this.

When his words reach Rhaenyra, Viserys apologizes for wasting years waiting for the birth of his son when he already had a worthy heir in the person of his daughter. He believes that Rainier will be a great queen and Damon is not made for the crown. Viserys also tells Rhaenyra a secret known only to members of their family: Aegon the Conqueror's invasion of Westeros was driven by more than ambition and a lust for power. Just as Daenys Targaryen foresaw the end of Valyria, Aegon foresaw the end of the human world, which would begin with a terrible winter that would come from the far North. Ægon saw the pitch darkness that all of Westeros must fight against, and for the human world to survive, a Targaryen must sit on the Iron Throne, a king or queen strong enough to unite the kingdom against the cold and darkness. Ægon called his dream "A Song of Ice and Fire", and since Ægon's time this secret has been passed down from kings to heirs so that Westeros will be ready when the evil that Ægon foretold falls upon mankind. ("Descendants of the Dragon")

During the Small Council meeting, an enraged Lord Corlys Velaryon reveals that the Triarchy have already sunk four Westeros ships, including one under Velaryon's flag, and he intends to capture the Stairs and destroy Kraghas Drahar, the Crab Feeder. However, King Viserys does not want to start a war with the Triarchy, which is supported by free cities. He reports that he has already sent envoys to Pentos and Volantis for negotiations. Rhaenyra, who has been following the discussion, suggests sending dragon riders to the Steps. However, her proposal is not taken seriously, and her father orders Ser Harrold, along with Rainier, to choose a new knight of the Royal Guard.

Rhaenyra is visibly bored as Ser Harrold introduces her to knights hoping to join the Kingsguard. Of all the knights, she chooses Ser Christon Kohl, as he has real combat experience. The Hand of the King, Otto Hightower, proposes to take another candidate, more politically advantageous. However, Reynira remains of her opinion and believes that real knights should protect her father, and not participants in tournaments who have no idea about the battles.

In the Great Sept, Alycente and Rhaenyra are talking to each other. Alicente tells her that this is the place where she feels closest to her mother, and that Reynira should try to get closer to hers. They kneel in front of lit candles and pray together. Alicenta gives Rainier some advice on how to get close to her father again.

Rhaenyra is watching her father from afar as he walks in the garden with Leina Velaryon. Rhaenys Targaryen openly declares to Rhaenyra that if a son is born to her father in a new marriage, the men of Westeros will expect him to ascend the throne, and not Rhaenyra. In response, Reynira says that she will create a new order when she becomes queen. Rhaenys recalls that the lords of Westeros had the opportunity to appoint a queen at the Great Council, but they rejected such a chance. Rhaenyra mockingly remarks that it was Rhaenys, the Almost Queen who was rejected, and unlike her, the great lords have already bowed the knee to Rhaenyra. However, Rhaenys warns Rayneera that the men would rather set the state on fire than allow a woman to ascend the Iron Throne.

Rainier attends an emergency meeting of the small council. The Dragon Keeper reports in High Valyrian that Prince Daemon stole the dragon's egg during the night. Rhaenyra discovers that it was the dragon's egg Flame Dream - the one she chose for the cradle of her younger brother, Prince Balon. Viserys, furious, wants to go to Dragonstone himself, but Otto Hightower dissuades him.

On Dragonstone, on the bridge leading to the castle, Prince Daemon and the city guards confront Otto and the knights of the Kingsguard. The situation escalates when his dragon Caraxes arrives to help Damon. Rhaenyra suddenly rises from the dense fog on her dragon Sirax. She says that she is the princess of Dragonstone, the castle is rightfully hers, and if he wants to become the heir to the throne, he must kill her. After a short conversation, Damon admits his defeat and tosses her the stolen dragon egg.

At the Red Keep, Viserys is outraged that Rhaenyra disobeyed him and could have died endangering the Targaryen family as the sole heir. However, Rainira remains calm and explains to her father that she returned the egg without bloodshed, and Ser Otto could not have done so. Viserys calms down and talks to Rhaenyra about her mother. Reynira realizes that her father will soon have to take a new wife. The next day, during a small council meeting, Viserys announces that he is going to marry Alicente Hightower, Rhaenyra's best friend, after which she leaves the meeting room in anger. ("The Vicious Prince")

Three years later, Rainier's relationship with both her father and Alicente, who became Queen of the Seven Kingdoms, is completely damaged, and now she does not want to listen to either of them. She attends the royal hunt with her family to celebrate the second name day of her younger half-brother, Prince Aegon Targaryen. In the camp, Lord Jason Lannister proposes to her, which she refuses. In the royal tent, she enters into a sharp skirmish with her father, realizing that he intends to marry her to one of the noble lords of Westeros, after which she runs away to the Royal Forest. Ser Kriston Kohl catches up to her, and Rhaenyra contemplates whether the kingdom will indeed accept her as queen. ("Second of his name")

Agreeing to marry to continue the Targaryen line, Rhaenyra sets out on a journey through Westeros to choose a husband of her own choosing. However, at Storm's End, she interrupts the trip. Rhaenyra is reunited with her uncle Damon after four years of separation, and he brings her late at night to Silk Road, where she sees the true nature of King's Landing and learns what the commoners think of her and her position in society. Reynira and Damon then go to a brothel, where Reynira witnesses sex orgies and unsuccessfully tries to seduce Damon. Rainier returns to the castle and spends the night with Christon Kohl, losing her virginity.

Rainier and Damon are seen together by a fox boy who informs Misaria about this. Misaria orders the boy to report this to Otto Hightower, who in turn relays the news to Rhaenyra's father Viserys. Alicente, having overheard the conversation between Viserys and Otto, questions Reynira, who strongly denies the accusations against her and Damon. Viserys, in order to avoid scandal, orders Rhaenyra to marry Ser Leinor Velaryon. She reluctantly agrees, but on the condition that Viserys fires Otto as Hand. At night, Grand Maester Mellos, on Viserys' orders, brings moon tea to Rhaenyra as a precaution. ("King of the Narrow Sea")