Viserys I Targaryen, the Peaceful - is the fifth king on the Iron Throne from the Targaryen dynasty. Viserys I is the grandson of Jaehaerys I Targaryen and the father of Rhaenyra. In his youth, he was the rider of the dragon Balerion, nicknamed the Black Horror. Approximately 200 years after his reign, Viserys Targaryen was named after him.


Viserys I is the grandson of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen. He succeeded his grandfather as king, as Jaehaerys I reigned so long that his children, Prince Balon and Princess Alyssa (Viserys' parents), passed away. Jaehaerys I himself was the grandson of Aegon the Conqueror, who conquered and unified Westeros and forged the Iron Throne.

Viserys inherited the kingdom after an unprecedented fifty years of peace and prosperity under his grandfather, and he strives not to disturb the existing world order. A full century after the conquest of Westeros, the Targaryen dynasty enjoys unquestioned authority - with the exception of the still independent Dorne, although relations with this region have also been calm and stable for decades.

Viserys' rise to power was fraught with difficulties, as his cousin Rhaenys also challenged their grandfather's right to the throne. Rhaenys was the only child of Jaehaerys's eldest son, and Viserys was the eldest son of Jaehaerys's youngest son, but the relatively young Targaryen dynasty did not have well-defined succession laws. Because the Iron Throne could not be given to a woman, a number of Rhaenys' supporters (including House Stark) believed that power should pass to her son, Leinor Velaryon. To resolve this issue, all the lords of Westeros gathered at the Great Council in Harrenhal; Viserys won the final vote by a wide margin, and Rhaenys reluctantly accepted the result. However, the council's decision caused a rift between the Iron Throne and House Velaryon, led by Rhaenys' husband Corlis Velaryon, an admiral in the Royal Navy and the wealthiest man in Westeros.

The matter is complicated by the fact that Viserys still has not produced a male heir from his beloved wife, Queen Aimma Arryn. His only child at the time of his accession to the throne was a daughter, Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen. However, according to the precedent set by the council at Harrenhal, Viserys' heir should be his closest male relative, his younger brother Damon Targaryen. However, the lords of Westeros and even Viserys himself consider Daemon too dangerous and short-tempered to be a suitable heir to the throne.

The question of succession leads to the formation of factions in the kingdom as ambitious lords vie for Viserys' favor. They include the Velaryons, who are trying to reclaim the throne they believe are rightfully theirs, and the Hightowers, a powerful family of the Hand of King Viserys Otto Hightower, ruler of Oldtown with close ties to the leadership of the Faith in the Seven.


Viserys attends the Great Council at Harrenhal, during which the lords choose Prince Dragonstone to succeed Old King Jaehaerys I Targaryen. Viserys is one of the two main contenders for the Iron Throne along with her cousin, Princess Rhaenys Targaryen. The Grand Council proclaims Viserys heir.



Approximately 10 years later, in the Red Keep, King Viserys holds a meeting of the Small Council, which is attended by his daughter Reynira as cupbearer (her father reproaches her for being late to the meeting). The Master of Ships, Lord Corlys Velarion, warns that the Free Cities have formed an alliance called the Triarchy and are trying to seize the Steps, which could lead to the ruin of the seaports of Westeros, but Viserys and the Hand of the King Otto Hightower do not heed his fears. Master of the Coin Lord Lyman Bisbury also complains to Viserys about the huge expense that his younger brother, Prince Daemon Targaryen, who has been appointed commander of the King's Landing city guards, has spent on training and equipping his men, but Viserys is confident that his brother has spent the gold well. The conversation turns to the upcoming tournament in honor of the heir, which Viserys has planned in anticipation of the birth of his next child. Despite the objections of Grand Maester Mellos, Viserys has no doubt that he will have a son.


Mellos is in the Red Keep treating the wound on Viserys' back from the blades of the Iron Throne. Viserys visits his wife Eimma taking a bath. Viserys tells her of his certainty that they will have a son, and Eimma is convinced that this will be their last child; after several miscarriages and stillbirths, she can't bring herself to mourn another one.


After a raid on the capital's criminals, which was arranged by Damon with the City Guard, Otto at a meeting of the small council complains to Viserys that Damon staged a demonstrative massacre, personally passing sentences, but, in his opinion, the prince should not be allowed to act with such permissiveness. Damon justifies his actions: nobles from all over the kingdom are coming to King's Landing for the tournament, so it is necessary to ensure safety on the city streets. Corlis Velarion also speaks out in support of Damon's actions, arguing that criminals should fear the city guards.


The next day, Viserys opens the tournament in honor of the heir with the announcement that Queen Aimma has gone into labor. A maester appears on the podium, who whispers information to Otto, who passes it on to Viserys.

To Viserys' dismay, Mellos explains that Queen Aimma's baby has a breech presentation and the king must make an unbearable choice - sacrifice his wife or lose both. Mellos talks about the technique he learned at the Citadel - opening the womb and removing the baby.


Shocked Viserys decides to save the heir. The midwives hold Eimma, screaming and in pain, while Mellos cuts open her womb. At the bedside of his wife, Viserys cries over the body of Eimma - she died of blood loss while saving their child. Grand Maester Mellos congratulates Viserys on the birth of his son and asks the king if he and the queen have chosen a name. Viserys replies "Baylon" (in honor of his father), but at that moment the prince begins to choke in the Grand Maester's arms.


A few days later, Viserys attends the funeral of Queen Aimma and Prince Balon. Viserys is beside herself with grief, and Rhaenyra asks Damon if her father found happiness in the few hours that her brother lived. Damon declares to Reynira that Viserys needs her more than ever, in response, Reynira says that she will never replace his son.

In the evening, a small council meets, and Otto Hightower insists that now that Eimma and Balon are dead, they need to discuss the issue of succession to the throne. Otto and Mellos claim that by becoming king, Damon will destabilize the situation in the kingdom. Mellos even hints that Damon might try to kill Viserys in an attempt to take the throne, but Viserys angrily denies that possibility. He recalls that it was Otto who appointed Damon as commander of the city guard, and how Otto objected to all the other appointments that Viserys made for his brother. Despite Otto's arguments, Viserys refuses to expel his brother from King's Landing. Otto and Mellos offer Viserys to name Rainier's heiress, but Viserys refuses to choose between brother and daughter. He compares the council members to crows quarreling over a corpse and leaves.

A dejected Viserys is working on a large model of old Valyria when Otto's daughter, Alicente Hightower, visits him. She brings him her favorite history book to distract him from his sad thoughts and expresses her condolences for his loss, recounting her experience of losing her mother.


At a small council meeting, Otto informs Viserys that Damon at the brothel on Silk Street raised a toast to the late Prince Balon, naming him "Heir for a Day". Enraged, Viserys summons his brother to the Great Hall, sitting on the Iron Throne with the Targaryen family sword Black Flame and surrounded by the Royal Guard. Viserys asks if Damon really taunted his nephew by calling him "heir for a day". In response, Damon states that everyone grieves in their own way. Viserys, furious, says that instead of comforting his brother and niece, Damon was celebrating his elevation. Damon replies that Viserys is always trying to send him to hell, and also in ten years of reign he has never offered him the post of Hand. Damon tells Viserys that he is weak and needs protection from the small council who are using him for their own purposes (especially Otto Hightower). Viserys, outraged by the insult, announces his intention to name an heir. Damon insists that he is his brother's heir. Viserys replies, "Not anymore" and orders Damon to return to the Runestone to his wife. After Damon leaves, Viserys accidentally cuts his finger on the Iron Throne.


In the evening, Viserys invites Rhaenyra to Balerion's shrine and asks what she sees when she looks at the dragons. Rainier confesses that she sees their family; according to her, the Targaryens are closer to the gods than to people, but this is all because of the dragons. Viserys warns Rhaenyra that dragons are a force not to be played with by a human; this power destroyed Valyria and could well destroy their family if they did not remember the lessons of history. Viserys is sure that any king or queen should understand this.

Viserys apologizes for wasting years waiting for the birth of his son when he already had a worthy heir in the person of his daughter. He believes that Rainier will be a great queen and Damon is not made for the crown. Viserys also tells Rhaenyra a secret known only to members of their family: Aegon the Conqueror's invasion of Westeros was driven by more than ambition and a lust for power. Just as Daenys Targaryen foresaw the end of Valyria, Aegon foresaw the end of the human world, which would begin with a terrible winter that would come from the far North. Ægon saw the pitch darkness that all of Westeros must fight against, and for the human world to survive, a Targaryen must sit on the Iron Throne, a king or queen strong enough to unite the kingdom against the cold and darkness. Ægon called his dream "A Song of Ice and Fire", and since Ægon's time this secret has been passed down from kings to heirs so that Westeros will be ready when the evil Ægon foretold falls upon mankind.


Before a gathering of the nobles of the Seven Kingdoms, including the Velaryons, Hightowers, Starks, and Baratheons, Viserys names Rhaenyra Princess of Dragonstone and heir to the Iron Throne, and the lords swear fealty to her. ("Descendants of the Dragon")

Six months later, the death of Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, Ser Ryam Redwyne, is discussed at a small council meeting. Mellos assures Viserys that he died peacefully in his sleep. While the council is debating whether to replace Ser Ryam in the Kingsguard, the meeting is interrupted by Corlis Velarion, who demands the destroyer of the Crab Feeder, who has already sunk four Westeros ships. Viserys objects to starting a war with the Free Cities, which supply Drahar with ships and orders. Viserys also reveals that he has sent messengers to Pentos and Volantis with the prospect of an alliance against their common enemy. Korlis counters that further inaction will only reinforce the Free Cities' belief in the weakness of Viserys, who had previously allowed his brother Daemon to seize Dragonstone and rule there for six months without reproach from the side of the crown.

Rhaenyra remarks that the Velaryon fleet, backed by the Targaryen dragonriders, could easily reclaim the Steps, but at the suggestion of Otto, Viserys declines her offer and sends her and Ser Harrold Westerling to consider new candidates for the Kingsguard to replace Ser Ryam.


Viserys shows Alicente a mock-up of Old Valyria, telling her about the city, culture and magic. Asked if he believes that Westeros could become the new Valyria, the king replies that nothing will ever compare to the glory of Valyria in its heyday. Viserys accidentally drops and breaks the dragon figurine, which Alicente picks up and returns to him. Viserys confesses that he doesn't know how to talk to his daughter after her mother's death. Alicente says that it will take time for Reynira to open up again, and suggests that Viserys talk to her daughter, but he would rather face the Black Horror. Viserys asks Alicent not to tell Rhaenyra about their conversation.


In the afternoon, in the gardens of the Red Keep, Viserys meets with Corlis and his wife Rhaenys and exchanges apologies for his harsh words at the small council meeting. Viserys reminds Corlis that, as king, he has an obligation to avoid war until it becomes inevitable. Corlis points out how vulnerable Viserys' reign looks today: a queen has died, a girl has become the heir to the Iron Throne for the first time in history, a disinherited brother of the king has occupied Dragonstone unhindered, and now foreign forces have established a colony on the most important sea route.


He calls on Viserys to strengthen his position in two ways: firstly, by regaining the Steps, and secondly, by marrying his daughter Leina, thus linking the Targaryen dragons and the Velaryon fleet with blood ties. Stunned by the offer, Viserys confesses that he had not considered marriage since Eimma's death, but Rhaenys reminds him that the state expects him to remarry in order to strengthen his family and produce heirs.


That same evening, Viserys and Reynira have dinner together. They confess their love for Aimma, but Viserys is lost in thoughts of Corlis' proposal. Rhaenyra informs Viserys that Ser Harrold has assembled knights renowned in the tournaments to replace Ser Ryam, but only Kriston has combat experience. Viserys suggests that Kriston will be an excellent guardsman. Rhaenyra tries to apologize for the bold thought she made at the small council, but Viserys states that she is too young and will learn decorum in time.

Mellos tries to save Viserys' gangrene-stricken little finger with the help of larvae to remove the dead flesh and stop the decay. Viserys informs Mellos and Otto Hightower of Lord Corlis's proposal to marry Leina. Otto thinks that Korlis has gone too far, because such issues should be discussed at the small council. He emphasizes that Lady Leina is a child, but Mellos advises Viserys to agree, believing that marriage will help bridge the rift between their houses that occurred at the Great Council of 101. Viserys is worried about what Rhaenyra will think, but Mellos reminds him that he must continue the lineage. Otto remembers his late wife and admits that he does not envy the king, who will have to remarry out of a sense of duty.

The next day, Viserys walks in the garden with twelve-year-old Leina Velaryon. During the walk, the girl asks the king about the dragons: what was it like for him to be the horseman of Balerion and where is Vhagar now. Leina utters learned words that it will be a great honor to unite the Targaryen and Velaryon houses, as in the days of Old Valyria, and promises Viserys to give birth to many children of pure Valyrian blood in order to strengthen the royal line and the kingdom itself. She also admits, referring to her mother's words, that she will not be able to share a bed with Viserys until she is fourteen years old.

In the evening, Viserys dine alone with Alicente, who sympathizes with him about not wanting to marry Leina. She gives him a dragon figurine, which he broke, but the masons repaired at her request. Their conversation is interrupted by Alicente's father, who informs Viserys that he has called an emergency meeting of the small council.

The elder of the dragon keepers informs the small council that Damon stole the dragon's egg during the night. Mellos reads Damon's letter announcing his intention to take a second wife, Misaria, and lay an egg in the cradle of his unborn child in the tradition of House Targaryen. Damon also invites Viserys to the wedding in two days. Realizing that Damon is trying to provoke him, Viserys initially refuses to act, but Rhaenyra asks the dragon guardian which egg was stolen, and he replies that Flame Dream's dragon egg is the one she chose for Prince Balon's cradle. Enraged, Viserys announces his intention to go with a detachment to Dragonstone and return Damon to the capital so that he will answer for everything. Otto dissuades the king from such an act, as it is too dangerous, and says that he will go himself.


Viserys meets with the master of laws, Lionel Strong, seeking an unbiased opinion on his proposed marriage to Leina Velaryon. Lionel understands that Viserys is not happy about marrying a 12-year-old girl, but states that the Targaryen's marriage alliance with the Velaryons can alleviate Corlis's bitterness over the decision of the Great Council of 101, unite the last descendants of Valyria and provide the crown with access to the Velaryon fleet, if the situation on the Steps escalates into open war. The meeting is interrupted by Steffon Darklyn of the Kingsguard, announcing that Rhaenyra has returned from Dragonstone, leaving Viserys shocked and confused.

In her chambers, Viserys angrily reproaches her daughter for leaving the capital and acting without the permission of the crown, risking her life. Viserys is relieved when Reynira reveals that she returned the stolen egg without bloodshed. Viserys notes that Reynira has inherited a lot from Eimma, and then starts talking about a new marriage. Viserys is convinced that no one can replace Eimma, but the Targaryen line is vulnerable and easy to cut off. Viserys insists that he will not replace Rhaenyra as heir, even if the new wife bears him sons. Reynira says that the main duty of the king is to the country, and Eimma would understand Viserys.

The next morning, Viserys convenes a small council and, to everyone's surprise, announces that he intends to marry Alicente Hightower. Lord Corlis, enraged at the insult to his family, protests the decision, to which Viserys reminds him that he is his king, causing Corlis to leave in anger. Shocked and offended, Reynira follows him. ("The Vicious Prince")


A year after his marriage to Alicent, Viserys has a son, Aegon. In honor of Aegon's second name day, Viserys organizes a hunt in the King's Forest, rejoicing at the opportunity to forget about politics. Before leaving, the new shipmaster, Ser Tyland Lannister, advises him to send aid to Prince Daemon and Lord Corlis, who are close to losing the war against the Crab Feeder. Viserys, however, is concerned about her daughter's absence and demands to know where Reynira is.

Viserys rides in the royal carriage with his pregnant Queen Alycente and their children, Rhaenyra and Aegon. Viserys rejoices that his entire family will be celebrating and having fun, but Rhaenyra, still angry with both him and Alicent, responds coldly. She does not want to participate in the hunt, and then Viserys reminds that the princess has responsibilities.

Arriving at the King's Wood, Viserys exits the carriage, followed by Alycente with Ægon, who is applauded by the lords and ladies, and Hobert Hightower gives glory to Ægon, the young Conqueror, the second of this name.

After Jason Lannister proposes to her, Rhaenyra lashes out in rage at Viserys, accusing him of trying to offer her to the great houses as a trophy. Viserys reminds her that it's time for Rhaenyra to get married, and that he's talked about marriage proposals many times, but Reynira has always refused to listen. Rhaenyra declares that she does not want to marry, Viserys shouts that even the king is not allowed to neglect traditions and duty, attracting the attention of the entire crowd gathered in the tent. Their argument is interrupted by Otto Hightower, who informs Viserys that a white deer has been spotted in the forest, which is a good omen for Prince Aegon's name day.

The King's Gamekeeper, Ser Howland Sharp, informs Viserys that fresh white deer droppings have been found half a league to the east, and they have tracked him down. Sharpe reminds Viserys that before dragons ruled Westeros, the white deer represented kingship in these lands. Otto tells the king that he never believed in signs and omens, but the gods apparently want to show their favor on Prince Aegon's name day.


The King's Gamekeeper, Ser Howland Sharp, informs Viserys that fresh white deer droppings have been found half a league to the east, and they have tracked him down. Sharpe reminds Viserys that before dragons ruled Westeros, the white deer represented kingship in these lands. Otto tells the king that he never believed in signs and omens, but the gods apparently want to show their favor on Prince Aegon's name day.

Viserys, doubting his choice of heir, drinks several cups of wine. Jason Lannister approaches him with a gift - a spear that he forged in the Golden Gallery of Casterly Rock in honor of Prince Aegon and hopes that it will be the king who will pierce the white deer with it. Viserys thanks him for the gift, but becomes irritated when Jason asks for Rhaenyra's hand in marriage. Jason tells Viserys that he and many other lords assumed he would name Ægon his heir, in response Viserys reminds him that he did not make Rhaenyra his heir out of a whim.

Otto informs Viserys that the huntsman has set dogs on a fresh trail and very soon they will drive the white deer. Otto asks what he thinks of Jason's proposal, to which Viserys remarks, "His pride has its own pride." Otto declares that Reynira will fulfill the king's order, but Viserys does not want to command his daughter and wishes her happiness. Otto then offers to marry Rhaenyra to her brother, Prince Aegon, but Viserys refuses, as Aegon is only two years old. When Otto continues to insist on his own, Viserys laughs, because he came to hunt, but instead suffocates from politics. After Otto leaves, Viserys continues to get drunk.

Lord Lionel Strong approaches him, informing him that they have sent riders to find Rhaenyra, and that Ser Christon has also gone after her. Viserys regrets that he can't handle his 17-year-old daughter, but Lionel reminds him that even King Jaehaerys was driven mad by children, especially his daughters. Lionel offers his opinion on a suitor for Rhaenyra, and Viserys suggests that he offer his son, Ser Harvin Strong, as a suitor. However, to his surprise, Lionel considers the son of the Sea Serpent Leinor Velaryon to be the best match for Rhaenyra, since he is from a pure Valyrian family and the heir to the richest house, and this marriage would assuage the resentment of Lord Corlis. Viserys steps out of the tent, patting Lionel gratefully on the shoulder.

Viserys continues to drink in front of the fire, where Alicente joins him. He recounts his prophetic dream in which his son, wearing the Conqueror's crown, ascends the Iron Throne, and laments that his obsession with having a son killed Rhaenyra's mother. Viserys explains that he named Rhaenyra as his heiress, as he never thought he would marry again and have a son. He wonders if he made the wrong choice.

The next morning, the hunters successfully round up the deer. Using Jason Lannister's spear, Viserys kills the hobbled animal on his second attempt.

Viserys and the rest of the hunt watch in surprise as Rhaenyra returns to camp with the boar they killed with Ser Kriston Kohl.

In the evening after returning to King's Landing, Alicent visits Viserys, who is suffering from a hangover. They discuss the issue of Rhaenyra's future husband, and Alicente tells Viserys that Reynira will marry if she thinks it is her choice. Alicente notices a letter on the table from Waymond Velaryon, in which he informs that Lord Corlis and Prince Daemon are close to a crushing defeat in the War of the Stairs, and asks for help. Viserys does not want to help, because two rebels started this war without permission. Alicente asks if the country wins if Drahar falls or loses. This convinces Viserys to act.

The next morning, Viserys sends Ser Addam to the Steps with a letter promising to send ten ships and two thousand men to help. Rhaenyra accuses Viserys of wanting to replace her with Aegon, the boy he always wanted and now he doesn't need her. Viserys assures his daughter that he does not want to replace her and wants to see her happy. He recalls that rulers should enter into advantageous marriages for the sake of alliances and power. Rhaenyra replies that for the sake of profit he should have married Leina Velaryon, and Viserys agrees. He says that she should marry, strengthen the rights to the throne and give offspring, but invites her to choose her own groom. As Rhaenyra prepares to leave, Viserys admits that he had doubts for a while, but now swears by her mother's memory that the place of Reynira will not be taken. ("Second of his name")

Viserys puts on a crown and takes up the sword Black Flame to greet his brother Damon after defeating the Steps. A full hall of nobles gathers in front of the Iron Throne. Viserys is shocked and annoyed to see Rhaenyra in the crowd, who was supposed to be on a trip to find a husband. Damon enters the throne room with the Dark Sister in her sheath and Crab Feeder's warhammer. He appears before the king in his own crown, made of bone and driftwood. Viserys draws attention to Daemon's crown and asks if he calls himself king. Damon says that after the defeat of the Triarchy, he was named "King of the Narrow Sea", but there is only one king. Damon kneels and gives his elder brother the crown and the Steps. Viserys asks what happened to Corlis Velaryon, and Damon replies that he sailed home to Driftmark. Damon reveals that he left two thousand dead Triarch pirates on the sand as a warning to those who would come after them. Descending from the throne, Viserys orders Damon to stand up and hugs his brother. The whole court applauds their reconciliation.

Viserys arranges a feast in honor of Daemon in the Godswood of the Red Keep and enjoys talking with his brother, whom he has not seen for many years. He admits that Damon has always been their mother Alyssa's favorite, since, like him, she was a warrior and ignored customs and traditions. Alicent invites Damon to walk through the gallery and see the beautiful tapestries received as a gift from Norvos and Qohor. Viserys laughs as Damon has no interest in art.

At a meeting of the small council, Tyland Lannister gives Viserys some disturbing news: the Stairs were supposed to submit to the crown, but it looks like the Crab Feeder has been replaced by the Sea Serpent, apparently in retaliation for the fact that the king chose not Lady Leina, but Alicente. Viserys is surprised that Korlis is still angry about this story that happened many years ago. Mellos notes that the Sea Serpent is an extremely proud man, his pride has been wounded, and they must try to heal the wound.


Otto Hightower informs that the situation is even worse: his brother reports disturbing news from Oldtown that Corlis has entered into negotiations with the Sea Lord of Braavos and wants to marry his daughter Leina to the son of the Lord. If House Velaryon allied with the Free Cities, then the crown would have to find a match for Rhaenyra.

At night, Viserys takes a bath. The infection he is suffering from could not be stopped by the amputation of two fingers, and the ulcers on his back have become much larger. Alicente dismisses the servants and treats Viserys' ulcers herself, and he notes the warmth of her touch. Viserys later summons Alicent to his quarters and they have sex, though Alicent does not enjoy it.

Early the next morning, Viserys is woken up by Otto Hightower with disturbing news: the previous night, Rainier was spotted in a brothel mating with her own uncle Damon. Viserys asks who is spreading these rumors and is going to gouge out the eyes of this earpiece. Otto replies that, like the Hand, he pays reliable people for information, and this spy has never let him down. An enraged Viserys asks Otto how far his ambitions go if he is spying on Rhaenyra. After Otto's reply that he has no intention of ruining the princess's reputation, Viserys angrily tells him to get out. After Otto leaves, Viserys turns and sees Alicente, who has overheard the conversation.

Several hours later, on the orders of Viserys, Daemon is grabbed by two royal guards, dragged into the throne room, and roughly thrown to the floor. Viserys accuses Damon of defaming his daughter and kicks him in the ribs, asking if he will try to deny it. Damon reminds his brother that when they were Rainier's age, they fucked almost everyone in the brothels on Silk Street. Viserys replies that they were young men, and Rhaenyra is Damon's niece. Damon retorts that Rainier is a grown woman and mockingly says that it's better to have a first experience with him than with a whore. Enraged, Viserys begins to strangle Damon, declaring that he killed Reynira, since now no lord will take her as his wife. In response, Damon proposes marrying Rainier. Viserys reminds Damon that he is already married to Rhea Royce. Daemon replies that Aegon the Conqueror had a second wife. Viserys, offended by this comparison, takes out a Valyrian steel dagger and puts it to Damon's throat, calling his brother a plague sent to destroy him. Damon insists that if Reynira becomes his wife, then together they will return the Targaryen house to its former glory. Viserys accuses Damon of not wanting Rainier, but the Iron Throne. Viserys orders Damon to return to the Valley to his lawful wife and try to find in himself at least a drop of honor.

In his chambers, Viserys looks out over the city from the balcony, while Alicente brings him a goblet of wine. Alicente says that Reynira is no different from deceit, unlike Damon. According to Alicente, Damon could have lied about having sex with Rainier just to make fun of his older brother for disinheriting him. Viserys is certain that Rhaenyra is not innocent. Alicente confesses to Viserys that Reynira swore to her that she would remain a maiden, and she believes her.

At night, Viserys summons Rhaenyra to his quarters. He shows her a dagger made of Valyrian steel, which is heated in a brazier, and explains that this dagger belonged to Aegon the Conqueror, formerly Einar Targaryen. Before Aegon's death, the last of the Valyrian pyromancers concealed a secret message in steel. Viserys hands the red-hot dagger to Rhaenyra, who reads the high Valyrian glyphs inscribed on it: "My blood will be the promised prince, and he will bring the Song of Ice and Fire."


Viserys says that the responsibility he has given to Rhaenyra, the burden of this knowledge, is greater than the throne or herself with her desires. Viserys notes that Jaehaerys I would have disinherited her. She says that she was not given the opportunity to defend herself, but Viserys replies that the truth does not matter: reputation matters. Reynira defiantly says that if she was born a man, she could sleep with anyone, close up a dozen bastards, and no one at court would blink an eye. Viserys agrees with her daughter, but reminds her that she was born a woman.

Viserys explains that he would have disinherited Rhaenyra and named Ægon his heir instead, but his duty is to strengthen the realm, not sow further discord. He reports that he has chosen a groom for Rhaenyre - Ser Leinor Velaryon, son of the Sea Serpent. According to Viserys, the wedding with Ser Laynor will unite the two strongest houses of the state, as well as the power of dragons and the navy, and the House of the Dragon will become one for generations to come. Rhaenyra reluctantly agrees to the marriage, but only on the condition that Viserys dismisses Otto Hightower, whom Rhaenyra accuses of greed and intention to make Aegon heir. Viserys chuckles that all the lords in the small council are pursuing their own interests in one way or another, but Rhaenyra forces her father to comply with her demand.

Viserys summons Otto to the small council meeting room. He tells how his father Balon Targaryen died just five days after King Jaehaerys named him Hand. Since Balon's death, Otto has become the new Hand, and Viserys wonders how soon Otto put his own interests ahead of the king's. Viserys says that Alicent helped him get through the worst grief after the death of Eimma, but now he understands that Otto used his daughter to bring the House of Hightower closer to the Iron Throne. Otto calls this absurd and says that Viserys and Alicente love each other. Viserys does not deny this, but emphasizes that Otto's interests no longer coincide with those of the kingdom, and his judgment is unreliable. The king removes the sign of the right hand from Otto's camisole, noting that the crown and the state are indebted to him, but he has ceased to trust his closest adviser.

Late in the evening, Viserys instructs Mellos to give a bottle of moon tea to Rhaenyra in order to avoid the undesirable consequences of sexual encounters that she may have had. ("King of the Narrow Sea")

After the dismissal of Otto Hightower, Viserys appoints Lord Lionel Strong as Hand. The royal delegation sets sail for Driftmark, the seat of House Velaryon, to negotiate a marriage alliance between Rhaenyra and Ser Leinor Velaryon, eldest son of Lord Corlys Velaryon. On the way to Driftmark, Viserys suffers from seasickness and his health begins to fail. They disembark at Spicetown and make the rest of the journey to Hightide in a carriage. The king and his entourage are greeted by Leina Velarion, who informs Viserys that Corlis is too tired after a recent voyage and is waiting for the king in the Hall of Nine. Lionel is offended that Lord Corlis does not personally meet the king, but Viserys does not pay attention to this.

In the Hall of Nine, Corlis receives Viserys from the Fin Throne and is visibly flattered that the king has come to him to ask for a marriage alliance with his son. Corlis informs Viserys of Rhea Royce's death. Rhaenys enters the hall, noticing the amputated fingers and Viserys' deteriorating health. During the meeting, a proposal for marriage is discussed, and Corlis agrees on the condition that the children of Leynor and Rainier take their father's surname. Viserys does not want the Targaryen dynasty to end with his daughter, so he suggests that the children of Leynor and Rhaenyra take the surname Velarion at birth, but when their firstborn ascends the Iron Throne, he or she will take the surname Targaryen.

Viserys returns to King's Landing. In the courtyard of the Red Castle, he falls as soon as he gets off the carriage. He wakes up in his private quarters, lying in a bathtub watched over by the maesters. Grand Maester Mellos wants to bring in more leeches, but his young assistant, Maester Orville, offers fresh herbal poultices that might be more beneficial. In response, Mellos says that there is no need for herbs, since leeches have always brought relief. After Mellos leaves, Orville gives Lord Lionel a vial of medicine, saying that it will help the king sleep. Viserys complains to Lionel that he will be remembered in history as a good king, because he did not fight and did not win, but he did not suffer defeat either. Lionel believes that many will consider it good luck. Viserys smiles, but says that epic songs will not be written about a peaceful and calm reign that will be sung hundreds of years from now. Viserys regrets that he did not have trials, because in the crucible of troubles he would have been reforged and become a different person. Lionel replies that many who have experienced adversity wish they were gone.